Getting started tutorials (#1431)
ocaml/ocaml.org: data/tutorials/getting-started/gs_01_a_tour_of_ocaml.md

Author: Reading the types output by the REPL can be a trip up, especially for new comers. I think it’s important that developers are able to understand the type definitions though. Perhaps a little section on this, or have it interlaced with the other sections.

From: https://sockthedev.notion.site/A-Tour-of-OCaml-Feedback-e5f3e62f445246cd8725c30b850cdb45

Remember: commands beginning with a hash mark are not part of the OCaml syntax; they are interpreted by UTop itself.

## Expressions and Definitions

```ocaml
# 50 * 50;;
- : int = 2500
```

In OCaml, everything has a value and every value has a type. Here`50 * 50` is an expression that evaluates to `2500`, which is of type `int` (integer). Here are examples of other primitive values and types:
```ocaml
# 6.28;;
- : float = 6.28

# "This is really disco!";;
- : string = "This is really disco!"

# true;;
- : bool = true
```

OCaml has *type inference*. It automatically determines the type of an expression without much guidance from the programmer. Lists are the topic of a [dedicated tutorial](/docs/lists). For the time being, the following two expressions are both lists. The former contains integers, and the latter, strings.
```ocaml
# [1; 2; 3; 4];;
- : int list = [1; 2; 3; 4]

# ["this"; "is"; "mambo"];;
- : string list = ["this"; "is"; "mambo"]
```

The lists' type, `int list` and `string list`, has been inferred from the type of their elements.

Tests also are expressions
```ocaml
# if 0 = 1 then "test is true" else "test is false";;
- : string = "test is false"
```

> In OCaml, `if ... then ... else ...` and the ternary conditional operator are the same thing.

Author: I think the if expression behaviour might be very unfamiliar/subtle to some. I suggest that it comes after the introduction to assigning variables (`let x = 50`) and include an example of assigning the result of an if expression to one.

From: https://sockthedev.notion.site/A-Tour-of-OCaml-Feedback-e5f3e62f445246cd8725c30b850cdb45

# read_line ();;
caramba
- : string = "caramba"

# print_endline;;
- : string -> unit = <fun>

# print_endline "ah ah";;
ah ah
- : unit = ()
```

The function `read_line` reads characters on standard input and returns them as a string when end-of-line (EOL) is reached. The function `print_endline` prints a string on standard output, followed by an EOL.

The function `read_line` doesn't need any data to proceed, and the function `print_endline` doesn't have any meaningful data to return. Indicating this absence of data is the role of the `unit` type, which appears in their signature. The type `unit` has as single value, written `()` and pronounced *unit*. It is used as a placeholder when no data is passed or returned, but some token still has to be passed to start processing or when it has terminated.

Input-output is an example of something taking place when executing a function but which does not appear in the function type. This is called a _side-effect_ and does not stop at I/O. The `unit` type is often used to indicate the presence of side-effects, although it's not always the case.

### Operators

_FIXME: Shall we move this to another tutorial? Which one?_

> Operators are functions. The function underlying behind an operator is refered by surrounding the operator symbol with parenthesis. Here are the addition, string concatenation and equality functions:

Author: This is interesting, but I’m guessing it’s on the low use scale. Probably better served in standard docs.

From: https://sockthedev.notion.site/A-Tour-of-OCaml-Feedback-e5f3e62f445246cd8725c30b850cdb45

```

The first two lines are only informative.

1. The first shows the `List.filter` type, which is a function taking two parameters. The first parameter is a function; the second is a list.
2. The second is the partial application of `List.filter` to `( <= ) 10`, which is a function returning `true` if applied to a number which is greater than or equal to 10.

Finally, in the third line, all the arguments expected by `List.filter` are provided. The returned list contains the values satisfying the `( <= ) 10` function.

It is also possible to define binary operators. Here is an example:
```ocaml
# let ( ^? ) = cat;;
val ( ^? ) : string -> string -> string = <fun>
# "hi" ^? "friend";;
- : string = "hi friend"
```

There are syntactic restrictions on possible operators symbols. They will not be
detailed here.

### Recursive Functions

A recursive function calls itself in its own definition. Such functions must be declared using `let rec` instead of just `let`. Here is an example:

```ocaml
# let rec range a b =
    if a > b then []
    else a :: range (a + 1) b;;
val range : int -> int -> int list = <fun>

# range 2 11;;
- : int list = [2; 3; 4; 5; 6; 7; 8; 9; 10; 11]

> ```

Author: Likely to throw the uninitiated for a doozy here. Super important for the functional programming side of OCaml, but it might need more priming. Also, the  `::` operator hadn’t been introduced yet. It looks like it adds a single value to the beginning of a list, but I had to do some extra legwork to figure that out.

From: https://sockthedev.notion.site/A-Tour-of-OCaml-Feedback-e5f3e62f445246cd8725c30b850cdb45

In OCaml you need to explicitly convert the integer to a floating point number using the `float_of_int` function:

```ocaml
# float_of_int 1 +. 2.5;;
- : float = 3.5
```

There are several reasons why OCaml requires explicit conversions. Most importantly, it enables types to be worked out automatically. OCaml's *type inference* algorithm computes a type for each expression and requires very little annotation, in comparison to other languages. Arguably, this saves more time than we lose by being more explicit.

### Pattern Matching

Here is a factorial function:

```ocaml
# let rec fact n =
    if n <= 1 then 1 else n * fact (n - 1);;
val fact : int -> int = <fun>
```

In OCaml, _pattern matching_ is often preferred. It is generalisation of the `switch` statement found in many languages. Here an alternate version of `fact`, using pattern matching:
```ocaml
# let rec fact n =
    match n with
    | 0 -> 1
    | 1 -> 1
    | n -> n * fact (n - 1);;
val fact : int -> int = <fun>

> ```

Author: I think it would be useful to provide a little bit more explanation on what is happening here. Also worth considering using  a simpler example that focuses on the core feature, and then  following it up with this example that includes recursion. 

For the catch all case in this example, would it be useful to use an alternative variable name? I assume it is shadowing the function argument, but it might be confusing seeing `n` everywhere. Might be an OCaml convention, but think it could be subtly confusing.

From: https://sockthedev.notion.site/A-Tour-of-OCaml-Feedback-e5f3e62f445246cd8725c30b850cdb45

### Lists

Lists may be the most common data type in OCaml. They are ordered collections of
values having the same type. Here are a few examples.

```ocaml
# [];;
- : 'a list = []

# [1; 2; 3];;
- : int list = [1; 2; 3]

# [false; false; true];;
- : bool list = [false; false; true]

# [[1; 2]; [3]; [4; 5; 6]];;
- : int list list = [[1; 2]; [3]; [4; 5; 6]]
```

Lists are defined as being either empty, which is written `[]`, or being an element `x` added at the front of another list `u`, which is written `x :: u` (the double colon operator is pronounced “cons”).

```ocaml
# 1 :: [2; 3; 4];;
- : int list = [1; 2; 3; 4]
```

These notations also apply to pattern matching. For example, here is how to define a recursive function that computes the sum of a list of integers:

```ocaml
# let rec sum u =
    match u with
    | [] -> 0
    | x :: v -> x + sum v;;
val sum : int list -> int = <fun>

# sum [1; 4; 3; 2; 5]/L
- : int = 15

> ```

Author: I feel like this section should come before “Pattern Matching”. The pattern matching could be introduced straight afterwards, with the sum example being used as an example. It’s nice when a lesson builds on top of a prior lesson.

From: https://sockthedev.notion.site/A-Tour-of-OCaml-Feedback-e5f3e62f445246cd8725c30b850cdb45

# let rec length u =
    match u with
    | [] -> 0
    | _ :: v -> 1 + length v;;
val length : 'a list -> int = <fun>

# length [1; 2; 3; 4];;
- : int = 4

# length ["cow"; "sheep"; "cat"];;
- : int = 3

# length [[]];;
- : int = 1
```

This function operates not just on lists of integers but on any kind of list. It is a polymorphic function. Its type indicates input of type `'a list` where `'a` is type variable standing for any type. The empty list pattern `[]` can be of any element type. So the `_ :: v` pattern, as the value at the head of the list, is irrelevant because the `_` pattern indicates it is not inspected. Since both patterns must be of the same type, the typing algorithm infers the `'a list -> int` type.

#### Higher Order Functions on Lists

Functions taking other functions as parameters are called _higher-order_ functions. This was illustrated earlier using function `List.map`. Here is how it is written using pattern matching on lists:

```ocaml
# let rec map f u =
    match u with
    | [] -> []
    | x :: u -> f x :: map f u;;
val map : ('a -> 'b) -> 'a list -> 'b list = <fun>

# let u = range 0 10000 in List.map square u = map square u;;
- : bool = true

> ```

Author: The final statement in this example is too complicated. I couldn’t quite figure out the two separate `=` operators on the same line. The `in` operator is also new to me. Wondering if this could be simplified to just use the square function.

```ocaml
let square x = x * x;;

let rec map f u =
  match u with
  | [] -> []
  | x :: u -> f x :: map f u;;

let squared = map square [1; 2; 3; 4;];;
```

From: https://sockthedev.notion.site/A-Tour-of-OCaml-Feedback-e5f3e62f445246cd8725c30b850cdb45

### Pairs and Tuples

Tuples are fixed-length collections of elements of any type. Pairs are tuples having two elements. Here is a 3-tuple and a pair:

```ocaml
# (1, "one", 'K');;
- : int * string * char = (1, "one", 'K')

# ([], false);;
- : 'a list * bool = ([], false)
```

Access to the component of tuple is done using pattern matching. For instance, the predefined function `snd` returns the second component of a pair:
```ocaml
# let snd p =
    match p with
    | (_, y) -> y;;
val snd : 'a * 'b -> 'b = <fun>

> ```

Author: I personally prefer when an example also shows how to use it. It makes it much easier for me to understand whats going on as I get to also reverse engineer it in my mind. I also prefer to avoid abbreviations, especially when writing content for newcomers as it helps avoid unnecessary assumptions/confusion.

```ocaml
let second_element p =
    match p with
    | (_, y) -> y;;

let fruits = ("apple", "pear");;

let x = second_element fruits;;
(* val x : string = "pear"; *)
```

From: https://sockthedev.notion.site/A-Tour-of-OCaml-Feedback-e5f3e62f445246cd8725c30b850cdb45

The type of tuples is written using `*` between the components' types.

### Variants Types

Like pattern matching generalises `switch` statements, variant types generalises enumerated and union types.

Here is the definition of a variant type acting as an enumerated data type:

```ocaml
# type primary_colour = Red | Green | Blue;;
type primary_colour = Red | Green | Blue

# [Red; Blue; Red];;
- : colour list = [Red; Blue; Red]
```

Here is the definition of a variant type acting as a union type:
```ocaml
# type http_response =
| Data of string
| Error of int;;
type http_response = Data of string | Error of int
```

Here is something sitting in between:
```ocaml
# type page_range =
| All
| Current
| Range of int * int;;
type page_range = All | Current | Range of int * int

> ```

Author: I feel like it would be helpful to show how to create instances of these variant types.

Looks like an incredibly powerful feature. Love it.

From: https://sockthedev.notion.site/A-Tour-of-OCaml-Feedback-e5f3e62f445246cd8725c30b850cdb45

# let is_printable page_count cur range =
    match range with
    | All -> true
    | Current -> 0 <= cur && cur < page_count
    | Range (lo, hi) -> 0 <= lo && lo <= hi && hi < page_count
val is_printable : int -> int -> page_range -> bool = <fun>
```

Like a function, a variant can be recursive if refers to itself in its own definition. The predefined type `list` provides an example of such a variant:
```ocaml
# show list;;
type 'a list = [] | (::) of 'a * 'a list
```

As previously shown, `sum`, `length`, and `map` functions provide examples of pattern matching over the list variant type.

### Records

Like tuples, records also pack elements of several types together. However, each element is given a name. Like variant types, records types must be defined before being used. Here are examples of a record type, a value, access to a component, and pattern matching on the same record.

```ocaml
# type person = {
    first_name : string;
    surname : string;
    age : int
  };;
type person = { first_name : string; surname : string; age : int; }

# let frank = {
     first_name = "Gérard";
     surname = "Huet";
     age = 40
  };;

> val frank : person = {first_name = "Gérard"; surname = "Huet"; age = 40}

Author: I heard of this before, but I think it is worth calling out that OCaml automatically associates a type definition with record instances that match a type. Really cool feature, but would be especially confusing for all the TypeScript peeps out there.

From: https://sockthedev.notion.site/A-Tour-of-OCaml-Feedback-e5f3e62f445246cd8725c30b850cdb45

Author: Addressed in: c79254cdb87cb9f9f5dbce8d32e669a7e73bb924

# let s = frank.surname;;
val s : string = "Huet"

# let is_teenager person =
    match person with
    | { age = x; _ } -> 13 <= x && x <= 19;;
val is_teenager : person -> bool = <fun>

# is_teenager frank;;

> - : bool = false

Author: Ooooh, this is cool. So would this match any record type that had an `age` property along with any other number of properties?

From: https://sockthedev.notion.site/A-Tour-of-OCaml-Feedback-e5f3e62f445246cd8725c30b850cdb45

Author: Addressed in: c79254cdb87cb9f9f5dbce8d32e669a7e73bb924

### Exceptions

When a computation is interrupted, an exception is thrown. For instance:

```ocaml
# 10 / 0;;
Exception: Division_by_zero.
```

Exceptions are raised using the `raise` function.

```ocaml
# let id_42 n = if n <> 42 then raise (Failure "Sorry") else n;;
val id_42 : int -> int = <fun>

# id_42 42;;
- : int = 42

# id_42 0;;
Exception: Failure "Sorry".
```

Note that exceptions do not appear in function types.

Exceptions are caught using the `try ... with ...` construction

```ocaml
# try id_42 0 with Failure _ -> 0;;
- : int = 0
```

The standard library provides several predefined exceptions. It is possible to define exceptions.

### Using the `result` type

Another way to deal with errors in OCaml is by returning value of type `result`,
which can represent either the correct result or an error. Here is how it is defined:

```ocaml
# #show result;;
type ('a, 'b) result = Ok of 'a | Error of 'b
```

So one may write:

```ocaml
# let id_42_res n = if n <> 42 then Error "Sorry" else Ok n;;
val id_42_res : int -> (int, string) result = <fun>

# id_42_res 42;;
- : (int, string) result = Ok 42

# id_42_res 0;;
- : (int, string) result = Error "Sorry"

> ```

Author: Wonder if it is worth showing how you can use pattern matching against the `result` type to emulate the try..catch example that was previously show?

```ocaml
let n = match id_42_res 42 with
  | Ok n -> n
  | Error _ -> 0;;
```

From: https://sockthedev.notion.site/A-Tour-of-OCaml-Feedback-e5f3e62f445246cd8725c30b850cdb45

## Working with Mutable State

OCaml supports imperative programming. Usually, the `let ...` syntax does not define variables, it defines constants. However, mutable variables exists in OCaml, they are called references. Here's how we create a reference to an integer:

```ocaml
# let r = ref 0;;
val r : int ref = {contents = 0}
```

It is syntactically impossible to create an unintialised or null reference. The `r`
reference is created with the integer zero. Accessing a reference's content
is done using the `!` de-reference operator.

```ocaml
# !r;;
- : int = 0
```

Let's put something else behind `r`. Here `:=` is the assignment operator; it is
pronounced “receives”.

```ocaml
# r := 42;;
- : unit = ()
```

This returns `()` because changing the content of a reference is a side-effect.

```ocaml
# !r;;
- : int = 42
```

Execute an expression after another with the `;` operator. Writing `a; b` means: execute `a`; once done, execute `b`, only return the value of `b`.

```ocaml
# print_string "hello "; print_endline "world!";;
hello world!
- : unit = ()
```

Here the first side-effect displays `hello `, the second `world!`. The

> returned value comes from the second function call.

Author: Are there any more solid real world examples for why this is useful? The given example appears a bit arbitrary to me right now.

From: https://sockthedev.notion.site/A-Tour-of-OCaml-Feedback-e5f3e62f445246cd8725c30b850cdb45

```ocaml
# #show Option;;
module Option :
  sig
    type 'a t = 'a option = None | Some of 'a
    val none : 'a t
    val some : 'a -> 'a t
    val value : 'a t -> default:'a -> 'a
    val get : 'a t -> 'a
    val bind : 'a t -> ('a -> 'b t) -> 'b t
    val join : 'a t t -> 'a t
    val map : ('a -> 'b) -> 'a t -> 'b t
    val fold : none:'a -> some:('b -> 'a) -> 'b t -> 'a
    val iter : ('a -> unit) -> 'a t -> unit
    val is_none : 'a t -> bool
    val is_some : 'a t -> bool
    val equal : ('a -> 'a -> bool) -> 'a t -> 'a t -> bool
    val compare : ('a -> 'a -> int) -> 'a t -> 'a t -> int
    val to_result : none:'e -> 'a t -> ('a, 'e) result
    val to_list : 'a t -> 'a list
    val to_seq : 'a t -> 'a Seq.t
  end
```

Definitions provided by modules are refered to by adding the module name as a prefix to the their name.
```ocaml
# Option.map;;
- : ('a -> 'b) -> 'a option -> 'b option = <fun>

# Option.map (fun x -> x * x);;
- : int option -> int option = <fun>

# Option.map (fun x -> x * x) None;;
- : int option = None

# Option.map (fun x -> x * x) (Some 8);;
- : int option = Some 64

> ```

Author: I am wondering if people who are unfamiliar with curried functions might get confused on some of this stuff. I think you do cover it a little in previous sections, but I am starting to wonder if it needs it’s own expanded section given it’s likely such a fundamental part of using the language effectively? 

For this example code it might be worth introducing variables to make this clearer?

```ocaml
let opt_multiply = Option.map (fun x -> x * x);;

opt_multiply None;;

opt_multiply (Some 8);;
```

From: https://sockthedev.notion.site/A-Tour-of-OCaml-Feedback-e5f3e62f445246cd8725c30b850cdb45

```ocaml
# fun x -> x * x;;
- : int -> int = <fun>
```

We can write anonymous functions and immediately apply them to a value:

```ocaml
# (fun x -> x * x) 50;;
- : int = 2500
```

### Functions with Multiple Arguments and Partial Application

A function may take several arguments, separated by spaces. This is the case both in function declaration and in function calls.

```ocaml
# let cat a b = a ^ " " ^ b;;
val cat : string -> string -> string = <fun>
```

The function `cat` takes two `string` arguments, `a` and `b`, and returns a value of type `string`.

```ocaml
# cat "ha" "ha";;
- : string = "ha ha"
```

Functions don't have to be called with all the arguments they expect. It is possible to only pass `a` to `cat` without passing `b`.

```ocaml
# let cat_hi = cat "hi";;
cat_hi : string -> string = <fun>
```

This returns a function which expects a single string, here the `b` from the definition of `cat`. This is called a _partial application_. In the above, `cat` was partially applied to `"hi"`.

The function `cat_hi`, which resulted from the partial application of `cat`, behaves as follows:

```ocaml
# cat_hi "friend";;
- : string = "hi friend"
```

> ### Type Variables and Higher-Order Functions

Author: I am split on this.

On the one hand, I fully agree with you these are different topics, and there is much to learn by gradually exposing things as you suggest. This is also the way I used to teach this. It works and does good.

On the other hand, I also want this tutorial to be as short as possible. This section aims to show `map` in OCaml because, nowadays, this is something readers will probably already know. This is intended to be a top-down thing, showing `map`, how it's used, and mentioning how it relates to polymorphism and higher-order without explaining much about any.

What do you think about that?

---
id: a-tour-of-ocaml
title: A Tour of OCaml
description: >
  Hop on the OCaml sightseeing bus. This absolute beginner tutorial will drive you through the marvels and wonders of OCaml. We'll have a look at the most commonly used language features.
category: "Getting Started"
---

# A Tour of OCaml

> Franz avait lu dans France Soir qu’un Américain avait mis neuf minutes et quarante-cinq secondes pour visiter le musée du Louvre. Ils décidèrent de faire mieux…

> &mdash; Jean-Luc Godard, _Bande à part_

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

Thibaut suggested we remove this.

Let's walk through the basics of OCaml by trying out different elements in an interactive manner. We recommend that you execute the examples we provide, or slight variants of them, in your own environment to get a feel for coding in OCaml.

> ## Prerequisites and Goals
> 
> Before proceeding with this tutorial, please ensure you've installed OCaml and set up the environment, as described on the [install OCaml](/docs/installing-ocaml) page. After we take an introductory tour of OCaml's language features, we'll proceed to create our first OCaml project in the [How to Write an OCaml Program](/docs/how-to-write-an-ocaml-program) tutorial.
> 
> This is a level zero tutorial. No OCaml or functional programming knowledge is required. As mentionned above, only having OCaml installed is needed. It is assumed the reader has some basic software development knowledge. This tutorial is probably not adapted to learn programming.
> 
> The goal of this tutorial is to provide the following capabilities:
> - Use Utop to evaluate OCaml expressions interactively
> - Trigger evaluation of expressions, understand the output displayed, values and typing
> - Write definitions of values and functions
> - Write list literals, use basic list operation, mattern match on list values
> - Write simple float expressions without typing errors
> - Write and patch-match pair and tuples values
> - Define a variant types, create and pattern match on values
> - Define an immutable record type, create a values, access the fields
> - Raise and catch an exception
> - Return an error-as-data result, process it using pattern matching
> - Declare and update a mutable basic mutable values: references and arrays
> - Call functions defined in modules of the OCaml standar library

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before proceeding with this tutorial, please ensure you've installed OCaml and set up the environment, as described on the [install OCaml](/docs/installing-ocaml) page. After we take an introductory tour of OCaml's language features, we'll proceed to create our first OCaml project in the [How to Write an OCaml Program](/docs/how-to-write-an-ocaml-program) tutorial.

This is a level zero tutorial. No OCaml or functional programming knowledge is required. Although, it is assumed the reader has some basic software development knowledge. 

This document will cover how to use the REPL UTop to evaluate OCaml expressions interactively, understand the output, how to use pattern matching, call functions in OCaml standard library modules, and more. It also introduces you to how lists, values, functions, integers, floats, basic operators, references, and arrays work in OCaml.
```

While it's often beneficial to put what we'll be learning at the front of a tutorial/lesson, Thibaut felt this list was too long, and it might discourage/overwhelm the reader. This is my suggestion for edits.

Also, Thibaut suggested we put the "prerequisites" at the top and the "next up" at the bottom as parts of the structure rather than the text. For example, the bottom of each page will have a link to what's next on the right-hand side and a link to the one before on the left.

>should we put in a link to where they can learn code? I don't think it's necessary, perhaps. They can Google for sure, unless we'll have a basic intro somewhere we can link to in the future.

```ocaml
# List.filter;;
- : ('a -> bool) -> 'a list -> 'a list = <fun>

# List.filter (( <= ) 10);;
- : int list -> int list = <fun>

# List.filter (( <= ) 10) [6; 15; 7; 14; 8; 13; 9; 12; 10; 11];;
- : int list = [15; 14; 13; 12; 10; 11]
```

The first two lines are only informative.

1. The first shows the `List.filter` type, which is a function taking two parameters. The first parameter is a function; the second is a list.
2. The second is the partial application of `List.filter` to `( <= ) 10`, which is a function returning `true` if applied to a number which is greater than or equal to 10.

Finally, in the third line, all the arguments expected by `List.filter` are provided. The returned list contains the values satisfying the `( <= ) 10` function.

It is also possible to define binary operators. Here is an example:
```ocaml
# let ( ^? ) = cat;;
val ( ^? ) : string -> string -> string = <fun>
# "hi" ^? "friend";;
- : string = "hi friend"
```

There are syntactic restrictions on possible operators symbols. They will not be
detailed here.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

Thibaut suggests we move this into a tutorial of its own, or at least into another one.

### Using the `result` type

Another way to deal with errors in OCaml is by returning value of type `result`,
which can represent either the correct result or an error. Here is how it is defined:

```ocaml
# #show result;;
type ('a, 'b) result = Ok of 'a | Error of 'b
```

So one may write:

```ocaml
# let id_42_res n = if n <> 42 then Error "Sorry" else Ok n;;
val id_42_res : int -> (int, string) result = <fun>

# id_42_res 42;;
- : (int, string) result = Ok 42

# id_42_res 0;;
- : (int, string) result = Error "Sorry"

# match id_42_res 0 with
  | Ok n -> n
  | Error _ -> 0;;
- : int = 0
```

## Working with Mutable State

OCaml supports imperative programming. Usually, the `let … = …` syntax does not define variables, it defines constants. However, mutable variables exists in OCaml, they are called references. Here's how we create a reference to an integer:

```ocaml
# let r = ref 0;;
val r : int ref = {contents = 0}
```

It is syntactically impossible to create an unintialised or null reference. The `r`
reference is created with the integer zero. Accessing a reference's content
is done using the `!` de-reference operator.

```ocaml

> # !r;;
> - : int = 0
> ```
> 
> Let's put something else behind `r`. Here `:=` is the assignment operator; it is
> pronounced “receives”.
> 
> ```ocaml
> # r := 42;;
> - : unit = ()
> ```
> 
> This returns `()` because changing the content of a reference is a side-effect.
> 
> ```ocaml
> # !r;;
> - : int = 42
> ```
> 
> Execute an expression after another with the `;` operator. Writing `a; b` means: execute `a`; once done, execute `b`, only return the value of `b`.
> 
> ```ocaml
> # let text = ref "hello ";;
> val text : string ref = {contents = "hello "}
> 
> # print_string !text; text := "world!"; print_endline !text;;
> hello world!
> - : unit = ()
> ```
> 
> Here are the side effects which happens in the second line:
> 1. Display the contents of the reference `text` on standard output
> 1. Update the contents of the reference  `text`
> 1. Display the contents of the reference `text` on standard output
> 
> This behaviour is the same as in an imperative language. However, although `;` is not defined as a function, it behaves as if it was a function of type `unit -> unit -> unit`.
> 
> OCaml also has mutable arrays. Here is how to create one:
> 
> ```ocaml
> # let a = [| 11; 12; 13; 14; 15; 16; 17 |];;
> val a : int array = [|11; 12; 13; 14; 15; 16; 17|]
> ```
> 
> Here is how indexed access is done:
> 
> ```ocaml
> # a.(4);;
> - : int = 15
> ```
> 
> Indexed assignment is done using the `<-` operator (not the reference assignment `:=`).
> ```ocaml
> # a.(4) <- 0;;
> - : unit = ()
> 
> # a.(4);;
> - : int = 0
> ```
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

Thibaut suggested we move this to another tutorial and put a link here, something like:

When you're ready, explore other topics like [dealing with errors](link), [working in a mutable state](link), and using [operators as functions](link) 

(as an example, please feel free to revise!)

Before proceeding with this tutorial, please ensure you've installed OCaml and set up the environment, as described on the [install OCaml](/docs/installing-ocaml) page. After we take an introductory tour of OCaml's language features, we'll proceed to create our first OCaml project in the [How to Write an OCaml Program](/docs/how-to-write-an-ocaml-program) tutorial.

> This is a level zero tutorial. No OCaml or functional programming knowledge is required. Only having OCaml installed is needed. It is assumed the reader has some basic software development knowledge. This tutorial is probably not adapted to learn programming.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To participate in this level zero tutorial, you need to have OCaml installed. No OCaml or functional programming knowledge is required; however, it is assumed the reader has some basic software development knowledge. This tutorial is probably not adapted to learn programming.
```

Press `Ctrl-D` (end of file) or enter `#quit;;` to exit `utop`.

> The hash prompt `#` displayed by UTop means it is waiting for input. You can start writing your code after the prompt. To evaluate it, add a double semicolon `;;` to signal the end of the expression and press `Enter`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
UTop displays a hash prompt `#`, similar to the `$` in the CLI. This `#` means it is waiting for input, so can start writing your code after the prompt. To evaluate it, add a double semicolon `;;` to signal the end of the expression and press `Enter`.
```

For instance, consider the following code snippet:
```ocaml
# 2 + 2;;
- : int = 4
```

In the code snippet above, `2 + 2;;` is the user's input, and `- : int = 4` is the output of OCaml.

If you need to amend the code before hitting `Enter`, you can use your keyboard's right and left arrows to move inside the text. The up and down arrows allows navigation through previously evaluated expressions. Typing `Enter` without a double semicolon `;;` will create a new line: you can write multiple-line expressions this way.

> Commands beginning with a dash character `#` such as `#quit` or `#help` are not evaluated by OCaml: they are interpreted as commands by UTop.

Reviewer: Do you mean "dash" here or "hash" ?

> You're now ready to hack with UTop and follow through this Tour of OCaml. If you hit any issue with the toplevel, don't hesitate ???

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You're now ready to hack with UTop and follow along through this Tour of OCaml. If you hit any issue with the toplevel, don't hesitate ???
```
Minor suggestion, feel free to ignore. I added "along" in here because I read it as "follow through" as to do something you've promised. 

..."don't hesitate to contact us" ?

```

The example above read the following way:

> 1. The empty list, nil

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. The empty list (called *nil*)
```

Author: Calling the empty list “nil” has already been explained earlier.

## Working with Mutable State

OCaml supports imperative programming. Usually, the `let … = …` syntax does not define variables, it defines constants. However, mutable variables exists in OCaml, they are called _references_. Here's how we create a reference to an integer:
```ocaml
# let r = ref 0;;
val r : int ref = {contents = 0}
```

It is syntactically impossible to create an unintialised or null reference. The `r`

> reference is initialized with the integer zero. Accessing a reference's content

Reviewer: Didn't we decide to keep the UK spelling?

Author: Yes we should stick we UK spelling. If it isn't, it's a mistake

## Sum-Up and Where Next?

> OCaml has many features, and this may be the most important one:

Reviewer: This gives a singluar intro "the most important one" but then goes on to list several.

Author: Mistake, sorry

Reviewer: No worries! 🙂
